!Nonogram
---------

A Nonogram solver for the Acorn RISC OS desktop

Features
--------

* Multitasking operation; can solve several puzzles at once.
  Granularity of processing is now finer than a single line, and so
  responsiveness shouldn't be so bad while solving a difficult line.

* Save solutions as text or Draw files (the latter now includes puzzle
  numbers).

* Choice of fast, complete or hybrid algorithms.

Requirements
------------

This application runs fine on a RISC OS 3.11 machine.  It almost
certainly won't work on RISC OS 2, as it uses Wimp SWI calls which
aren't in the PRM for that version.  I've no idea if it works on
anything else.  It initially requires 160K (that's what I've got the
WimpSlot set to), but may take more memory as it solves more puzzles
simultaneously.

Background
----------

Nonograms are logic puzzles originating in Japan.  A picture is
encoded into numbers, and the challenge is to discover the picture
using only the numbers.  Alternatively, if you're lazy, or a cheat, or
simply stuck on a difficult puzzle at which you've already had a fair
stab (honest, I have, Guv!), get this program to solve it for you.

For more information on Nonograms, please visit the "Nonogram Solver"
website at:

https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/~simpsons/nonogram/

Use
---

Run the application !Nonogram.  The icon appears on the icon bar.
Drag a Nonogram puzzle text file to the icon, and a window will open
showing an empty grid.  Open the window's menu, and choose
Action=>Run, and the puzzle will begin being solved.  When grid is
complete, open the menu and choose Save=>Text=> or Save=>Draw=> to
save the solution as a text or Draw file respectively.

When saving as a Draw file, you may indicate:

* whether you want to include the cell values or just the empty grid,

* whether you want the row rules/clues printed on the left/right/both,

* whether you want the column rules/clues printed on the
  top/bottom/both.

Nonogram puzzle format
----------------------

The Nonogram Solver website gives details of the file format that the
program accepts.  Briefly, it looks like this:

width <width>
height <height>

rows
<row data>

columns
<column data>

Each line of row or column data in the text file corresponds to a row
or column in the puzzle, and numbers for the same line are
comma-separated.

Other facilities
----------------

From the window's menu, File=> brings up information on the Nonogram:
number of solutions found, and processing status (Paused (the initial
status), Running or Finished).

Algorithm=> selects one of the three line-solving algorithms to use:

Algorithm=>Fast selects a quick and simple algorithm that isn't
guaranteed to extract all the information present in a line.  The
solver may be forced to make orthogonal-line guesses that wouldn't be
necessary using other algorithms.

Algorithm=>Complete selects a slower, more thorough algorithm that is
guaranteed to extract all the information present in a line.

Algorithm=>Hybrid selects either of the fast or complete algorithms
per line.  The fast algorithm is prefered, but the complete algorithm
will be used if necessary, rather than making an orthogonal-line
guess.

Action=>Exhaust starts or stops the processing of the puzzle (a tick
is displayed when running).  Use this to count the total number of
solutions.

Action=>Run starts or stops the processing of the puzzle (a tick is
displayed when running).  Processing will stop automatically when a
puzzle is found, and you can set it to continue to find more.

Action=>Once causes a single line to be solved, and the puzzle will
then be paused.

Action=>Clear clears the grid so you can begin solving the puzzle
again.

Action=>Discard removes the puzzle from the window.

It is possible to load a puzzle over another one by dropping the
puzzle file in an existing window.  The old puzzle is discarded.

Interactive help is provided, and can be viewed with a suitable
application such as !Help.
